hello welcome everyone to the ipfs
weekly call my name is Portia and at the
ipfs week we call this is where we get
to show showcase and see all the
wonderful applications being built on
top of IPSS so thank you for being here
and today we are going to speak to Joel
he's an engineer at angel he's an
engineer at three box and three box
works on social profiles for web three
applications for peer-to-peer
applications and the thing about Joel is
we're actually in the same building so
Joel and I are part of the same
co-working space which is full load so
we are in walking distance of each other
so fun fact
on that note Joel are you ready to take
it away yeah sure awesome thanks for the
opportunity to speak here and I'm in
following the ffs projects for I guess
since back in 2015 so excited to share
what me and my team has been working on
so let's see if I can share my screen
great you all see this yes so is it in
full screen now yes perfect
all right so hey everyone I'm Joel or
often known as Oh on the web today I'm
going to be talking to you about three
box and what it is why but we've been
building it and kind of how it uses ipfs
and other technologies so I'm gonna dive
right into it so basically what is three
box and we see three box as like a user
data network and we're building tools
enable people to build more social gaps
we want to enable users to have control
of their data we also want to enable
data to be more accessible in a way
where like the network effects kind of
works around users rather than
applications we want to let make it
easier to build applications where users
can interact in both in public and a
private way and we want data to be
stored securely and in a way where you
store it obviously so with encryption
and anyone make interoperable with
identity standards that are emerging in
this kind of decentralized web space so
if anyone is familiar Dae is short for
decentralized identifiers which is a
standard developed by the decentralized
identity foundation so why are we going
three blocks so the way that started was
that we were working and in the etherium
space and we kind of saw that a lot of
ethereum gaps were kind of boring
basically you had a smart contract then
you had a front-end that maybe was
hosted on my PFS
and you could only do like very simple
thing I click on the bottom and then
that triggers some smart contract
function you can't really do rich
applications like that because smart
contracts are expensive and slow so we
can just start getting this kind of
notion of boxing's and the Therrien and
stuff like that are the financial layer
of the distributed web and we kind of
wanted to do something more than just
financial applications from districts as
well and yeah applications are there
applications that were more kind of user
rich we're often taking web to
applications so cryptic kiddies for
example
they register users on their servers so
our approach to this was canon to build
the social layer for the distributed web
so letting users have profiles instead
of just hex addresses making it easier
to use and like making the onboarding
experience better letting users control
their privacy and their identity instead
of you're storing it on a server like
traditional apps - and make a like the
experience of using these and realized
applications more social and yeah so I'm
gonna talk about some components of that
makes up the three box network and so
basically there there's three major
things the first one is three box
jeaious and this is a JavaScript library
that you use to build web applications
and basically you use it to store data
and retrieve data and interact in the
system and this library takes care of
storing and encrypting the data and in a
way where it's like easy to make um
applications then we have the three box
pinning node and this node basically you
can spin up and they will replicate the
data in the three box network so each
user kind of have their own data store
and that's stored locally within the
browser but it's also replicated on any
nodes in the network that are run
separately so there's no drums with no
js' we I didn't go through a little boat
boat so meat right data for you were
serious and verify and create claims and
that something has to do with
decentralized event fires encrypt
decrypt data and create threads and I'm
gonna be diving deeper in that there
and the painting now communicates with
any clients
that's three three box J s replicates
Terra and provides a REST API for like
the latest state of users profiles and
data search and this also has a module
so it can communicate with as three if
you want to have like a more robust back
in then the third component that's still
rather important is the three box
profiles tab so basically adapt it uses
three bucks jeaious where you can go and
create a profile so like setup picture a
name can verify Twitter and github and
so forth and start building can have
some social reputation we can also see a
public activity that you made so like
things you've got they didn't in profile
but also if you tie this profile to
interfere images you can see all of this
this users public key ATM activity so
the J's library has a bunch of features
and there's like three major ones first
one is a profile where you can basically
set and update the profile of a user
then there is a feature called spaces
and this is the access control part of
the data storage where applications can
request to get access to the space and
users have to explicitly grant
permission to access that space which
means that you might have a that one
that has access to space but DEP 2
doesn't have access to that space in the
user doesn't want to give that access to
that space to that back so like you can
have some compartmentalization of data
and all spaces allow for public data and
for private encrypted data then we have
feature called threads which is
basically allows
messaging between users so you can
imagine using it for comments or chat
box or something like that and that's
basically the three main features of the
three bucks jay is library so how to
sort of all of this work so we use JSI
PFS both in the 3d box JS library and in
the pinning node and basically for data
storage and content addressing and also
pops up to kind of tell the network
updates that happens then we use a
really cool system called orbit DB which
is a database layer built on top of IP
FS I'm sure many of you might be
familiar with this project
it's basically a CR DT data structure on
top of IP FS which updates and
replicates databases between peers that
are actively listening for those
databases and then we are using a DI key
and we have a dige method and that's a
cryptographic identifier for users so
basically giving each user a unique
identifier in the network so kind of
touch upon this but basically we have
tap that would use the three Box J's
library this dap will type in the
browser and you have the j SI p FS it
connects the orbit eb and you have the v
ID and all this creates your three box
which where you can store data then we
communicate with pub sub to the paying
node where the pinning node would open
the orbitty be instances for the users
that are like active vibe on the network
so so the pinning know doesn't need to
listen to all orbitty be paid databases
of all users at all time
it only opens the databases for the
users that are currently like live using
free box and this also provides a REST
API for like we can say with a selective
caching layer for profiles so you don't
have to like fetch the entire see object
and like reduce it down to whatever the
state of the profile is right now you
can use query the REST API for for the
state of the profile which is useful if
you just like displaying something and
you just want to display profile a lot
of profiles for different users India
and since we're coming from this there
in space the kind of first application
free box is used for is to replace
accept doses of etherium applications
with a picture and a name so as we can
bootstrap this network we have a
something called the address server and
this is basically a mapping from an
aetherium address to a three box D ID
and this is a component that we have
centralized right now but we're going to
fold that in into the pinning node and
then you we are gonna do lookup of the
theory map goes to a three box dat with
pumps up similar to the IP NS pub/sub
that recently I think got into ipfs
alright so I want to talk a little bit
about things that are interesting for us
in terms of research and things that we
would like to see maybe collaborate on
so data schema so we see is really
important like how do we store data in a
way where it's interoperable there is a
website called schema.org but it's
primarily focused on
at json-ld so it would be cool also if
there was like IPL be based schemas I
haven't seen very much efforts around
that so if you know something about that
they'll be very interesting and then IPL
D and json-ld
compatibility I know there's some work
on that but like that area I think needs
a bunch of exploration and then of
course linked data signatures so right
now our BTB has a system where it kind
of takes the data in in a nightly first
object ads signature based on that data
in its own custom way there is a working
group I think that works would like
these linked data signatures I don't
think I think they might become
interoperable with both json-ld and IPL
D and that would be super cool so we can
have like way of signing data objects in
a in a like standard way and I think
this this standard would also likely
support D IDs but I think there's still
some open questions there so yeah this
was like a quick overview of three box
and we'd love to hear some questions I
can dive deeper into the tech if
anyone's that anyone who owns that and
yeah thanks awesome thank you very much
and you stop sharing your screen awesome
excellent thank you
so this is a Q&A portion so if anyone
has any questions if they can put it in
a chat that would be much appreciated
you have any questions about three box
this one's from Alex all he says is
three box in production right now or is
it still in development so we see
ourselves as in production obviously
we're using like very new technologies
so things might be shaky at times but
yeah we see ourselves as in production
and we are used by some
aetherium applications and we are
actually in the process of integrating
with a bunch of other aetherium based
applications so for example Dow stack is
very interested in using our threads for
creating a commenting system for their
kind of Dow so you can like comment and
proposals and interact with other
members of a Dow and yeah some other
dolls are also looking at using it and
there's a bunch of other products
looking at it as well
[Music]
awesome thank you and this is a comment
from Volker um there's schema work going
on and I peeled e-team so there's a link
on um the kind of work type Ald team is
on doing so that's a good reference and
Alan what are your biggest pain points
using JSI PFS right now
hmm so actually using JSF DFS has been
by a good experience I know a lot of
people like that I talked to you about
using idea festive like had it speed
somewhat painful experience but like our
experience has been mostly good hmm so
so one thing that's like a combination
of ipfs in our BTB is like as IP this
releases like a new version it takes a
while for Orbitz you like update some
other things that is like new in the new
version and we have to kind of wait
until with updating the ipfs dependency
before they have updated their software
[Music]
pub/sub works fairly well but i would
like to explore more like making it
[Music]
easier to understand like when i can
send a message and know that it will be
received by another peer like a specific
ear so like right now when i connect to
the pub sub network i kind of wait with
sending my message before I've actually
been connected to a node like to to a
pinning node so I kind of wait for that
and then send the message but I know
that that node is already on the network
so but if I send a message before it
might not before I've seen that know
join or like I guess I'm connected to
that node but might not reach that node
so it makes sense
you
are there any other questions or
comments
Johnny's got a question
or what specific um did method you are
using
so right now we're using a method called
Newport so basically the three box
project spun out of another project is
called Newport and we were kind of in
Newport experimenting with some daj
methods and this one is called Newport
so mu court and basically it's a create
a bunch of keys add them to a Nike FS
objects and then take the hash of the
type FS objects would be the identifiers
we are actually planning on creating
another a DAT method that's very similar
to to Newport but it has some additional
features that's useful for our spaces
features so basically what we've been
thinking is a if a an application
requests access to a specific space and
you want to send messages to different
users between different users in a space
you don't want to encrypt a message such
that other depths that doesn't have
access to that space can decrypt them so
we kind of had this two layer div system
approach where we have a div for each
space but that theory also reference
like a root key ID that's a bit of a lot
of information and maybe not super clear
but that's I wrote the the IP ID did
method which is based on IP LD and so I
ran into the issue about the JCL D and
the linked data signatures so you can
serialize json-ld on top of IP LD but
it's not backwards compatible and so for
backward backwards compatibility you
need a fully qualified URI and ipfs
tonight well I think there is now ipfs :
but now it's it's registering IP l d :
as being a scheme name under I Ana which
is in the works
and so the issue we have right now is
with interoperability with either you
port or meu port is that's in JWT and so
it's converting it into json-ld and then
interoperating between IP LD which is
what our dig method is based on okay
yeah there's a lot of like subtleties in
this but yeah I think I saw your part of
writing a paper on ipfs based dat
methods i love along with the christian
blumquist i think said right yeah so
that that's gonna touch upon some of
those things you mentioned right yeah
exactly
immediate pusher thank you
our next comment
volker um kind of relieved sigh PLD
there's the weekly meeting which is
actually today for the IPL d teen that
is open for everyone so if you want to
learn more about IPL d they do have an
open meeting as well and there's a link
where you could find more information
about it thank you both
any other are there any other questions
or comments
all righty well that will include well
that will conclude our meeting
yay we will say
that will conclude our meeting for today
of the ipfs weekly call I'd like two one
st. Jakob for taking notes and thank
Joel for coming and speaking about
three-box thank you very much thank you
yeah
and I'll see everyone next week on
Monday have a great week and I'll see
you soon take care bye bye